My name is Ashley and
my role at Google
is CE Enablement Lead
for SecOps sales.
All that means is I
help set up training
for customer engineers
that support our products.
Grew up with a computer,
loved the Internet.
I have one of the
earliest AOL screen names
in history and I'm
very proud of that.
My dad is an engineer and
I think there was always
an interest in tech.
But when I got out
of high school,
there wasn't a clear
path to get there.
It wasn't a linear path at all.
I was a knucklehead growing up.
I gave up in 10th grade
and I just didn't
care for a long time
and I was getting
in trouble a lot and
I pretty much told
myself if I don't join the
military and get out of here,
I will probably not be here in
about 2-3 years if I
continue down this path.
I joined the army right out of
high school, graduated in June,
and four days later I was at
bootcamp at Fort Jackson,
South Carolina as
a trumpet player,
believe it or not, I
come back and had to get
a job and was not
even tracking on tech jobs
or anything like that.
I was pulling in carts
for a big hardware store,
selling video games, retail,
box slinger for a
freight company.
All of that stuff has happened
before I even figured out
that tech was an option.
The military was kind
enough to retrain me in IT,
and that's kind of how I actually got
the official first wave
of schooling to be
able to actually say,
hey, I have the skills to at
least be a PC technician.
I went back to community
college and I actually
did find a cybersecurity
associates degree program,
worked on some certifications.
I went to my first DEFCON,
which is a big
hacking conference,
and that set off a light bulb,
I think to actually get
that clarity on what the
path could look like.
I landed my first
security analyst job
back in 2017 and I went to
a Veterans Training
Program at my last company
that was free for
vets and ended up
getting hired out
of the training.
I was with that company for
almost five years before
I came to Google.
If you're new and
you're just coming in,
you have to know how
to work with a team.
I think a lot of us learned that
in customer service settings.
Some of the skills I
learned working in retail,
dealing with hard customers,
learning how to even talk
to people or diffuse
a situation if people
are upset about things,
just learning how
to talk to people.
In IT we need that.
It's no longer just the
tech skills we need,
the more T-shaped which
they're soft skills,
there's people skills, and
there's technical skills.
You have to have good
analysis skills,
and again, it doesn't even
have to be technical analysis,
if you can read a book and pick
apart the rhetorical
devices of that story,
you can do analysis work.
I didn't have to be
a software engineer to
work in this field.
For many of us, there's
like a math fear,
programming is a big hurdle,
but we work with people,
we work with processes,
and you don't
necessarily need to have
that coding knowledge to
understand people or processes.
There's so many
ways to break in,
so do not get discouraged
and don't be scared to
think outside of the box to
get your foot in the door.